# cld-lipids
Lipidome profiles in cholestatic liver disease

This directory contains code to plot distribution of lipids from blood plasma of a mouse model of cholestatic liver disease.

The LC-MS/MS data was generated by Shimadzu Nexera - Sciex QTrap 5500, metabolites and lipids were quantified with Biocrates targeted metabolomic kit and further annotated. The data was proccessed by Metaboanalyst 5.0, filteredd for low-abundance compounds, normalized by median, log-tarnsformed, and exported for visualization. Here we provide code to plot distribution of lipids using the exported data. To avoid the batch effect that could be caused by differences between the cohorts, we consider the two studies (mice terated by diet and mice treated by diet and AAV) separately. 

The following scripts plot the distribution of lipid species, one for each lipid class.

In mice treated by diet:

diet_pc_concentrations.R - distribution of phosphatidylcholine class lipids;
diet_pe_concentrations.R - distribution of phosphatidylethanolamine class lipids;
diet_pi_concentrations.R - distribution of phosphatidylinositol class lipids;
diet_car_concentrations.R - distribution of acylcarnitine class lipids.

In mice treated by diet and AAV:

diet_aav_pc_concentrations.R - distribution of phosphatidylcholine class lipids;
diet_aav_pe_concentrations.R - distribution of phosphatidylethanolamine class lipids;
diet_aav_pi_concentrations.R - distribution of phosphatidylinositol class lipids;
diet_aav_cer_concentrations.R - distribution of ceramide class lipids.
